# Incite

### What is Incite?
Incite is a distributed data platform. It provides the following features,

* Data (streaming) aggregation
* Enterprise integration 
* Hybrid transaction/analytical processing (HTAP) SQL database
* Machine Learning (ML) with SQL query

### Data (streaming) aggregation
Data aggregation is to compile and combine data from different data-sources for different kind of data-processing. 
Incite provides RESTful APIs which allow users to define and run data aggregation against multiple origins (sources) 
and write the result of the aggregation to different destinations (sinks). Not only that, Incite supports streaming 
aggregation as it supports streaming read and streaming write from/to different data-sources.

### Enterprise integration
Enterprise integration allow data/message generated by different system to be integrated and processed to be further 
processed or to be shared. Incite provides RESTful APIs which allow users to define an integration route to ingest data
from other systems and to egress the processed data to other systems or databases. 

### HTAP SQL database
Incite is powered by Apache Ignite which is also a hybrid transaction/analytical processing (HTAP) SQL database. 
This means that Incite is friendly to both analytical & transactional workload. One does not have to transfer data 
stored by transactional operations to a standalone data warehouse to be analysed which saves resources and time.

```properties
## Example SpringBoot configuration
spring.datasource.driver-class-name=org.apache.ignite.IgniteJdbcThinDriver
spring.datasource.url=jdbc:ignite:thin://${incite.host}:${incite.port}/incite?lazy=true
spring.datasource.username=${incite.username}
spring.datasource.password=${incite.password}
```

### ML with SQL query
Machine learning is a set of algorithms which provides insight of data. They can improve itself through the use of data.
Incite allows running machine learning algorithm against data stored on incite by using SQL query. Currently, Incite only
supports the following ML algorithms.

#### 1. Cluster analysis
   * Bisecting k-means
   * K-means

Example:
```roomsql
-- Build a model for a ClusterAnalysis entity stored into Incite
select build_cluster_analysis_model('2036cd45-557e-41ce-a157-e64253295032');
-- Return the UUID of the built model

-- Perform prediction for the given ClusterAnalysis entity and given sql query
select cluster_analysis_predict('2036cd45-557e-41ce-a157-e64253295032', 'select * from sample_dataset');
-- Return the result in JSON format

-- Build a bisecting k-means model for an ad-hoc dataset 
-- buildBisectingKMeansModel(sql: String, featuresColumns: String, k: Int, maxIteration: Int, seed: Long)
select build_bisecting_k_means_model('select g.id, g.age, g.sex from guest g', 'age,sex', 4, 10, 1);
-- Return the UUID of the built model

-- Perform prediction with the bisecting k-means model
-- bisecting_k_means_predict(modelId: String, jsonOrSql: String)
select bisecting_k_means_predict('526d6e09-5c13-486f-951a-5dad58e3d36c', 'select nr.id, nr.age, nr.sex from newly_registered nr');
-- Return the result in JSON format
```